title:Using filters
template:base.html
content:
##Using Filters

`filters` are functions you can call from your templates at render time. For Example

	<!DOCTYPE html>
	<html>
		<head>
			<title></title>
			<meta charset="utf-8" />
			<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/normalize.css">
			<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css">
		</head>
	<body>
		<header>
			<!-- this is the filter-->
			<h1>{{ "Hello World"|replace("Hello", "Goodbye") }}</h1>

			<!-- here is another one called 'list'. It can turn a comma delimted string into an iterable list-->
			
			{%for i in 'bob,stan,doug,danny,stacy'|list %}
				{{i}}
			{%endfor%}

		</header>
		<footer>
			blah blah blah
		</footer>
	</body>
	</html>

In this example the filter `replace` took the word on the left side of the pipe and replaced "Hello" with "Goodbye". The result would be that "Goodbye World" would be rendered into our template. The second filter in the example is `list`. The `list` filter turns a comma delimited string into an iterable list. We can then iterate over it with another filter that works like a traditional `for` loop. There are a number of other filters built into `jinja2` that you can use in your templates. You can find a complete list [here](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/templates/#builtin-filters). Not all may be relevant to us right off.


## Jinjastar filters
`jinjastar` comes with some of its own filters. The first one I'd like to point out is `get_files_list`. In the example below, we use it to generate a link to every .html page in our website.

	<div class="nav">
		<ul>
		{% for l in '.' |get_files_list('.html') %}
			<li><a href="/{{l.link}}">{{l.title}}</a></li>
		{%endfor%}
		</ul>
	</div>

The first argument `get_files_list` accepts is the path to a directory.
It then recursively finds files and returns a list we can iterate over. In the example above we tell it to get files starting in the directory `'.'`, which means the root of the content directory. We also tell it to return only `'.html'` files.

`get_files_list` returns a list of dictionaries that contain meta data about each file. The fields are:
* `lmt` Last modified time
* `link` a link to the file from the root of the content directory
* `name` the name of the actual file.
* `title` The title field from the markdown page. 
`order` The order field from the markdown page

Here is an sample of what it actually produces
	
	[{'lmt': '03-26-2013 ', 'link': 'content.html', 'name': 'content.html', 'title': 'Content Rendering', 'order':1}, {'lmt': '03-26-2013 ', 'link': 'filters.html', 'name': 'filters.html', 'title': 'Using filters', 'order':2}, {'lmt': '03-26-2013 ', 'link': 'index.html', 'name': 'index.html', 'title': 'Introduction', 'order':3}]


`get_files_list` also takes a number of other parameters. Ex:

	get_files_list(file_ext='.js, .css', exclude='articles,archive', sort='name', reverse=False)

`file_ext` can be any comma delimted string of file extensions. The default is * which means all files.
`exclude` tells get_files_list to stay out of these directories
`sort` tells get_files_list how to sort the files. Choices are `name`, `date`, `order`
`reverse` reverse the sort order. Ex: If you sort by date, you may want to use `reverse=True` so you would get the most recently created content first.

## Using your own filters
Filters are simply python functions. You can include your own custom filters in your project by passing in a path to a `.py` file containing your custom code.
Example:
`filter.py`

	def say_word(word):
		return '%s was generated by a custom filter !' % word

	# NOTE: You must have a TEMPLATE_FILTERS dict in you filter.py file
	TEMPLATE_FILTERS = {
		'say_word':say_word,
	}

We then need to tell `jinjastar` about it by passing the path to your `.py` file using the `-f` flag.
